http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06274
Title:
 Relations Between Central Black Hole Mass and Total Galaxy Stellar Mass  in the Local Universe

Abstract:
Scaling relations between central black hole (BH) mass and host galaxy
properties are of fundamental importance to studies of BH and galaxy evolution
throughout cosmic time. Here we investigate the relationship between BH mass
and host galaxy total stellar mass using a sample of 262 broad-line active
galactic nuclei (AGN) in the nearby Universe (z < 0.055), as well as 81
galaxies with dynamical BH masses. The vast majority of our AGN sample is
constructed using Sloan Digital Sky Survey spectroscopy and searching for
Seyfert-like narrow-line ratios and broad H-alpha emission. BH masses are
estimated using standard virial techniques. We also include a small number of
dwarf galaxies with total stellar masses M_stellar < 10^9.5 Msun and a
sub-sample of the reverberation-mapped AGNs. Total stellar masses of all 343
galaxies are calculated in the most consistent manner feasible using
color-dependent mass-to-light ratios. We find a clear correlation between BH
mass and total stellar mass for the AGN host galaxies, with M_BH proportional
to M_stellar, similar to that of the early-type galaxies with
dynamically-detected BHs. However, the relation defined by the AGNs has a
normalization that is lower by more than an order of magnitude, with a
BH-to-total stellar mass fraction of M_BH/M_stellar ~ 0.025% across the stellar
mass range 10^8 < M_stellar/Msun < 10^12. This result has significant
implications for studies at high redshift and cosmological simulations in which
stellar bulges cannot be resolved.
Author:
Amy E. Reines, Marta Volonteri
Comment:
Accepted for publication in the Astrophysical Journal. 15 pages, 12 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06276
Title:
 First Observation of Time Variation in the Solar-Disk Gamma-Ray Flux  with Fermi

Abstract:
The solar disk is a bright gamma-ray source. Surprisingly, its flux is about
one order of magnitude higher than predicted. As a first step toward
understanding the physical origin of this discrepancy, we perform a new
analysis in 1-100 GeV using 6 years of public Fermi-LAT data. Compared to the
previous analysis by the Fermi Collaboration, who analyzed 1.5 years of data
and detected the solar disk in 0.1-10 GeV, we find two new and significant
results: 1. In the 1-10 GeV flux (detected at $>5\sigma$), we discover a
significant time variation that anticorrelates with solar activity. 2. We
detect gamma rays in 10- 30 GeV at $>5\sigma$, and in 30- 100 GeV at $>
2\sigma$. The time variation strongly indicates that solar-disk gamma rays are
induced by cosmic rays and that solar atmospheric magnetic fields play an
important role. Our results provide essential clues for understanding the
underlying gamma-ray production processes, which may allow new probes of solar
atmospheric magnetic fields, cosmic rays in the solar system, and possible new
physics. Finally, we show that the Sun is a promising new target for
ground-based TeV gamma-ray telescopes such as HAWC and LHAASO.
Author:
Kenny C. Y. Ng, John F. Beacom, Annika H. G. Peter, Carsten Rott
Comment:
13 pages, 6 figures, comments are welcome

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06277
Title:
 The OmegaWhite Survey for Short-Period Variable Stars I: Overview and  First Results

Abstract:
We present the goals, strategy and first results of the OmegaWhite survey: a
wide-field high-cadence $g$-band synoptic survey which aims to unveil the
Galactic population of short-period variable stars (with periods $<$ 80 min),
including ultracompact binary star systems and stellar pulsators. The ultimate
goal of OmegaWhite is to cover 400 square degrees along the Galactic Plane
reaching a depth of $g = $ 21.5 mag (10$\sigma$), using OmegaCam on the VLT
Survey Telescope (VST). The fields are selected to overlap with surveys such as
the Galactic Bulge Survey (GBS) and the VST Photometric H$\alpha$ Survey of the
Southern Galactic Plane (VPHAS+) for multi-band colour information. Each field
is observed using 38 exposures of 39 s each, with a median cadence of $\sim$2.7
min for a total duration of two hours. Within an initial 26 square degrees, we
have extracted the light curves of 1.6 million stars, and have identified 613
variable candidates which satisfy our selection criteria. Furthermore, we
present the light curves and statistical properties of 20 sources which have
the highest-likelihood of being variable stars. One of these candidates
exhibits the colours and light curve properties typically associated with
ultracompact AM CVn binaries, although its spectrum exhibits weak Balmer
absorption lines and is thus not likely to be such a binary system. We also
present follow-up spectroscopy of five other variable candidates, which
identifies them as likely low-amplitude $\delta$ Sct pulsating stars.
Author:
S. A. Macfarlane, R. Toma, G. Ramsay, P. J. Groot, P. A. Woudt, J. E. Drew, G. Barentsen, J. Eisloffel
Comment:
27 pages, 10 figures, 9 tables. Accepted for publication by MNRAS, 24 August 2015

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06279
Title:
 VHE $γ$-ray/X-ray correlation studies in Mrk 421 down to the  quiescent state

Abstract:
The blazar Mrk 421 is one of the closest, brightest and fastest varying
source in the extragalactic X-ray/TeV sky. In the last years, many
multi-wavelength campaigns have been carried out to study the correlation
between the very high energy (VHE) $\gamma$-ray and X-ray fluxes of this source
and, although the activity in these two energy ranges seems to be correlated in
many observations, no conclusive results have been achieved yet. In this work
we present a robust study of the VHE $\gamma$-ray/X-ray correlation of Mrk 421
with data taken with different VHE experiments on different time scales and for
different levels of activity of the source, with special focus on the low
activity states. In particular, we discuss the robustness of the correlation at
the lowest fluxes corresponding to the quiescent state of Mrk 421.
Author:
Barbara Patricelli, Magdalena González, Nissim Fraija
Comment:
Comments: 6 pages, 1 Figure, to appear in Proc. of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague (Netherlands), July 30-August 6 2015

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06280
Title:
 Tuning target selection algorithms to improve galaxy redshift estimates

Abstract:
We showcase machine learning (ML) inspired target selection algorithms to
determine which of all potential targets should be selected first for
spectroscopic follow up. Efficient target selection can improve the ML redshift
uncertainties as calculated on an independent sample, while requiring less
targets to be observed. We compare the ML targeting algorithms with the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) target order, and with a random targeting algorithm.
The ML inspired algorithms are constructed iteratively by estimating which of
the remaining target galaxies will be most difficult for the machine learning
methods to accurately estimate redshifts using the previously observed data.
This is performed by predicting the expected redshift error and redshift offset
(or bias) of all of the remaining target galaxies. We find that the predicted
values of bias and error are accurate to better than 10-30% of the true values,
even with only limited training sample sizes. We construct a hypothetical
follow-up survey and find that some of the ML targeting algorithms are able to
obtain the same redshift predictive power with 2-3 times less observing time,
as compared to that of the SDSS, or random, target selection algorithms. The
reduction in the required follow up resources could allow for a change to the
follow-up strategy, for example by obtaining deeper spectroscopy, which could
improve ML redshift estimates for deeper test data.
Author:
Ben Hoyle, Kerstin Paech, Markus Michael Rau, Stella Seitz, Jochen Weller
Comment:
15 pages, 9 figures, to be submitted to MNRAS, comments welcome

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06281
Title:
 Dark influences II: gas and star formation in minor mergers of dwarf  galaxies with dark satellites

Abstract:
Mergers have been proposed to induce starbursts and to lead to important
morphological changes in galaxies. Most studies so far have focused on large
galaxies, but dwarfs might also experience such events, since the halo mass
function is scale-free in the concordance cosmological model. Notably, because
of their low mass, most of their interactions will be with dark satellites. In
this paper we follow the evolution of gas-rich disky dwarf galaxies as they
experience a minor merger with a dark satellite. We aim to characterize the
effects of such an interaction on the dwarf's star formation, morphology and
kinematical properties. We perform a suite of carefully set-up hydrodynamical
simulations of dwarf galaxies that include dark matter, gas, and stars, merging
with a satellite consisting solely of dark matter. For the host system we vary
the gas fraction, disk size and thickness, halo mass and concentration, while
for the satellite we explore different masses, concentrations and orbits. We
find that the interactions cause strong starbursts, both of short and long
duration in the dwarfs. Their star formation rates increase by factors of a few
to 10 or more. They are strongest for systems with extended gas disks and high
gas fractions merging with a high-concentration satellite on a planar, radial
orbit. In contrast to analogous simulations of Milky Way-mass galaxies, many of
the systems experience strong morphological changes and become spheroidal even
in the presence of significant amounts of gas. The simulated systems compare
remarkably well with the observational properties of a large selection of
irregular dwarf galaxies and blue compact dwarfs. This implies that mergers
with dark satellites might well be happening but not be fully evident, and may
thus play a role in the diversity of the dwarf galaxy population.
Author:
Tjitske K. Starkenburg, Amina Helmi, Laura V. Sales
Comment:
15 pages (+4 as appendix), 17 figures (+5 in appendix). Submitted to A&A. Comments are welcome

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06283
Title:
 Star-Forming Brightest Cluster Galaxies at 0.25 < z < 1.25: A  Transitioning Fuel Supply

Abstract:
We present a multi-wavelength study of 90 brightest cluster galaxies (BCGs)
in a sample of galaxy clusters selected via the Sunyaev Zel'dovich effect by
the South Pole Telescope, utilizing data from various ground- and space-based
facilities. We infer the star formation rate (SFR) for the BCG in each cluster,
based on the UV and IR continuum luminosity, as well as the [O II] emission
line luminosity in cases where spectroscopy is available, finding 7 systems
with SFR > 100 Msun/yr. We find that the BCG SFR exceeds 10 Msun/yr in 31 of 90
(34%) cases at 0.25 < z < 1.25, compared to ~1-5% at z ~ 0 from the literature.
At z > 1, this fraction increases to 92(+6)(-31)%, implying a steady decrease
in the BCG SFR over the past ~9 Gyr. At low-z, we find that the specific star
formation rate in BCGs is declining more slowly with time than for field or
cluster galaxies, most likely due to the replenishing fuel from the cooling ICM
in relaxed, cool core clusters. At z > 0.6, the correlation between cluster
central entropy and BCG star formation - which is well established at z ~ 0 -
is not present. Instead, we find that the most star-forming BCGs at high-z are
found in the cores of dynamically unrelaxed clusters. We investigate the
rest-frame near-UV morphology of a subsample of the most star-forming BCGs
using data from the Hubble Space Telescope, finding complex, highly asymmetric
UV morphologies on scales as large as ~50-60 kpc. The high fraction of
star-forming BCGs hosted in unrelaxed, non-cool core clusters at early times
suggests that the dominant mode of fueling star formation in BCGs may have
recently transitioned from galaxy-galaxy interactions to ICM cooling.
Author:
M. McDonald, B. Stalder, M. Bayliss, S. W. Allen, D. E. Applegate, M. L. N. Ashby, M. Bautz, B. A. Benson, L. E. Bleem, M. Brodwin, J. E. Carlstrom, I. Chiu, S. Desai, A. H. Gonzalez, J. Hlavacek-Larrondo, W. L. Holzapfel, D. P. Marrone, E. D. Miller, C. L. Reichardt, B. R. Saliwanchik, A. Saro, T. Schrabback, S. A. Stanford, A. A. Stark, J. D. Vieira, A. Zenteno
Comment:
20 pages, 10 figures. Submitted for publication in ApJ. Comments welcome

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06284
Title:
 Microwave Continuum Emission and Dense Gas Tracers in NGC 3627:  Combining Jansky VLA and ALMA Observations

Abstract:
We present Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) Ka band (33 GHz) and Atacama
Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) Band 3 (94.5 GHz) continuum images covering the
nucleus and two extranuclear star-forming regions within the nearby galaxy NGC
3627 (M 66), observed as part of the Star Formation in Radio Survey (SFRS).
Both images achieve an angular resolution of $\lesssim$2\arcsec, allowing us to
map the radio spectral indices and estimate thermal radio fractions at a linear
resolution of $\lesssim$90 pc at the distance of NGC 3627. The thermal fraction
at 33 GHz reaches unity at and around the peaks of each HII region; we
additionally observed the spectral index between 33 and 94.5 GHz to become both
increasingly negative and positive away from the peaks of the HII regions,
indicating an increase of non-thermal extended emission from diffusing
cosmic-ray electrons and the possible presence of cold dust, respectively.
While the ALMA observations were optimized for collecting continuum data, they
also detected line emission from the $J=1\rightarrow0$ transitions of HCN and
HCO$^{+}$. The peaks of dense molecular gas traced by these two spectral lines
are spatially offset from the peaks of the 33 and 94.5 GHz continuum emission
for the case of the extranuclear star-forming regions, indicating that our data
reach an angular resolution at which one can spatially distinguish sites of
recent star formation from the sites of future star formation. Finally, we find
trends of decreasing dense gas fraction and velocity dispersion with increasing
star formation efficiency among the three regions observed, indicating that the
dynamical state of the dense gas, rather than its abundance, plays a more
significant role in the star formation process.
Author:
Eric J. Murphy, Dillon Dong, Adam K. Leroy, Emmanuel Momjian, James J. Condon, George Helou, David S. Meier, Jürgen Ott, Eva Schinnerer, Jean L. Turner
Comment:
9 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in ApJ

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06288
Title:
 The blue supergiant MN18 and its bipolar circumstellar nebula

Abstract:
We report the results of spectrophotometric observations of the massive star
MN18 revealed via discovery of a bipolar nebula around it with the Spitzer
Space Telescope. Using the optical spectrum obtained with the Southern African
Large Telescope, we classify this star as B1 Ia. The evolved status of MN18 is
supported by the detection of nitrogen overabundance in the nebula, which
implies that it is composed of processed material ejected by the star. We
analysed the spectrum of MN18 by using the code CMFGEN, obtaining a stellar
effective temperature of \approx 21 kK. The star is highly reddened,
E(B-V)\approx 2 mag. Adopting an absolute visual magnitude of M_V=-6.8\pm0.5
(typical of B1 supergiants), MN18 has a luminosity of log L/Lsun \approx
5.42\pm0.30, a mass-loss rate of \approx (2.8-4.5)\times10^{-7} Msun/yr, and
resides at a distance of \approx 5.6^{+1.5} _{-1.2} kpc. We discuss the origin
of the nebula around MN18 and compare it with similar nebulae produced by other
blue supergiants in the Galaxy (Sher 25, HD 168625, [SBW2007] 1) and the Large
Magellanic Cloud (Sk-69 202). The nitrogen abundances in these nebulae imply
that blue supergiants can produce them from the main sequence stage up to the
pre-supernova stage. We also present a K-band spectrum of the candidate
luminous blue variable MN56 (encircled by a ring-like nebula) and report the
discovery of an OB star at \approx 17 arcsec from MN18. The possible membership
of MN18 and the OB star of the star cluster Lynga 3 is discussed.
Author:
V.V. Gvaramadze, A.Y. Kniazev, J.M. Bestenlehner, J. Bodensteiner, N. Langer, J. Greiner, E.K. Grebel, L.N. Berdnikov, Y. Beletsky
Comment:
21 pages, 14 figures, accepted for publication in MNRAS

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06289
Title:
 KSwAGS: A Swift X-ray and UV Survey of the Kepler Field. I

Abstract:
We introduce the first phase of the Kepler-Swift Active Galaxies and Stars
survey (KSwAGS), a simultaneous X-ray and UV survey of ~6 square degrees of the
Kepler field using the Swift XRT and UVOT. We detect 93 unique X-ray sources
with S/N>3 with the XRT, of which 60 have observed UV counterparts. We use the
Kepler Input Catalog (KIC) to obtain the optical counterparts of these sources,
and construct the X-ray to optical flux ratio as a first approximation of the
classification of the source. The survey produces a mixture of stellar sources,
extragalactic sources, and sources which we are not able to classify with
certainty. We have obtained optical spectra for thirty of these targets, and
are conducting an ongoing observing campaign to fully identify the sample. For
sources classified as stellar or AGN with certainty, we construct SEDs using
the 2MASS, UBV and GALEX data supplied for their optical counterparts by the
KIC, and show that the SEDs differ qualitatively between the source types, and
so can offer a method of classification in absence of a spectrum. Future papers
in this series will analyze the timing properties of the stars and AGN in our
sample separately. Our survey provides the first X-ray and UV data for a number
of known variable stellar sources, as well as a large number of new X-ray
detections in this well-studied portion of the sky. The KSwAGS survey is
currently ongoing in the K2 ecliptic plane fields.
Author:
Krista Lynne Smith, Patricia T. Boyd, Richard F. Mushotzky, Neil Gehrels, Rick Edelson, Steve B. Howell, Dawn M. Gelino, Alexander Brown, Steve Young
Comment:
Accepted for publication in the Astronomical Journal. 19 pages, 8 figures, 3 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06290
Title:
 First Light with ALES: A 2-5 Micron Adaptive Optics Integral Field  Spectrograph for the LBT

Abstract:
Integral field spectrographs are an important technology for exoplanet
imaging, due to their ability to take spectra in a high-contrast environment,
and improve planet detection sensitivity through spectral differential imaging.
ALES is the first integral field spectrograph capable of imaging exoplanets
from 3-5$\mu$m, and will extend our ability to characterize self-luminous
exoplanets into a wavelength range where they peak in brightness. ALES is
installed inside LBTI/LMIRcam on the Large Binocular Telescope, taking
advantage of existing AO systems, camera optics, and a HAWAII-2RG detector. The
new optics that comprise ALES are a Keplerian magnifier, a silicon lenslet
array with diffraction suppressing pinholes, a direct vision prism, and
calibration optics. All of these components are installed in filter wheels
making ALES a completely modular design. ALES saw first light at the LBT in
June 2015.
Author:
Andrew J. Skemer, Philip Hinz, Manny Montoya, Michael F. Skrutskie, Jarron Leisenring, Oli Durney, Charles E. Woodward, John Wilson, Matt Nelson, Vanessa Bailey, Denis Defrere, Jordan Stone
Comment:
13 pages, 9 figures, Proc. SPIE

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06291
Title:
 Discovery of an Apparent High Latitude Galactic Supernova Remnant

Abstract:
Deep H$\alpha$ images of a faint emission complex 4.0 x 5.5 degrees in
angular extent and located far off the Galactic plane at l = 70.0 degrees,
b=-21.5 degrees reveal numerous thin filaments suggestive of a supernova
remnant's shock emission. Low dispersion optical spectra covering the
wavelength range 4500 - 7500 A show only Balmer line emissions for one filament
while three others show a Balmer dominated spectrum along with weak [N I] 5198,
5200 A, [O I] 6300, 6364 A, [N II] 6583 A, [S II] 6716, 6731 A and in one case
[O III] 5007 A line emission. Many of the brighter H$\alpha$ filaments are
visible in near UV GALEX images presumably due to C III] 1909 A line emission.
ROSAT All Sky Survey images of this region show a faint crescent shaped X-ray
emission nebula coincident with the portion of the H$\alpha$ nebulosity closest
to the Galactic plane. The presence of long, thin Balmer dominated emission
filaments with associated UV emission and coincident X-ray emission suggests
this nebula is a high latitude Galactic supernova remnant despite a lack of
known associated nonthermal radio emission. Relative line intensities of the
optical lines in some filaments differ from commonly observed [S II]/H$\alpha$
> 0.4 radiative shocked filaments and typical Balmer filaments in supernova
remnants. We discuss possible causes for the unusual optical SNR spectra.
Author:
Robert Fesen, Jack Neustadt, Christine Black, Ari Koeppel
Comment:
12 pages, 10 figures, submitted to the Astrophysical Journal

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06292
Title:
 A probable Milli-Parsec Supermassive Binary Black Hole in the Nearest  Quasar Mrk 231

Abstract:
Supermassive binary black holes (BBHs) are unavoidable products of galaxy
mergers and are expected to exist in the cores of many quasars. Great effort
has been made during the past several decades to search for BBHs among quasars;
however, observational evidence for BBHs remains elusive and ambiguous, which
is difficult to reconcile with theoretical expectations. In this paper, we show
that the distinct optical-to-UV spectrum of Mrk 231 can be well interpreted as
emission from accretion flows onto a BBH, with a semimajor axis of ~590AU and
an orbital period of ~1.2 year. The flat optical and UV continua are mainly
emitted from a circumbinary disk and a mini-disk around the secondary black
hole (BH), respectively; and the observed sharp drop off and flux deficit at
wavelength lambda ~ 4000-2500 Angstrom is due to a gap (or hole) opened by the
secondary BH migrating within the circumbinary disk. If confirmed by future
observations, this BBH will provide a unique laboratory to study the interplay
between BBHs and accretion flows onto them. Our result also demonstrates a new
method to find sub-parsec scale BBHs by searching for deficits in the
optical-to-UV continuum among the spectra of quasars.
Author:
Chang-Shuo Yan, Youjun Lu, Xinyu Dai, Qingjuan Yu
Comment:
9 pages, 7 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06293
Title:
 On Testing the Kerr Metric of the Massive Black Hole in the Galactic  Center via Stellar Orbital Motion: Full General Relativistic Treatment

Abstract:
The S-stars in the Galactic center (GC) are anticipated to provide unique
dynamical constraint on the spin of the GC massive black hole (MBH). In this
paper, we develop a fast full general relativistic method to simultaneously
constrain the MBH mass, spin, and spin direction by considering both the motion
of a star and the propagation of photons from the star to a distant observer.
Assuming some example stars, we demonstrate that the spin-induced effects on
the projected trajectory and redshift curve of a star depend on both the value
and the direction of the spin. The maximum effects over a full orbit can differ
by a factor upto more than one order of magnitude for cases with significantly
different spin directions. Adopting the Markov Chain Monte Carlo fitting
technique, we illustrate that the spin of the GC MBH is likely to be well
constrained by using the motion of S0-2/S2 over a period of ~45yr if it is
close to one and the astrometric and spectroscopic precisions (sigma_p,sigma_Z)
can be as high as (10muas, 1km/s). In the mean time, the distance from the sun
to the GC and the MBH mass can also be constrained to an unprecedented accuracy
(0.01%-0.1%). If there exists a star with semimajor axis significantly smaller
than that of S0-2/S2 and eccentricity larger than that of S0-2/S2, the MBH spin
can be constrained with high accuracy over a period of <~10yr for
(sigma_p,sigma_Z) ~ (10muas,1km/s), even if the spin is only moderately large
(>~0.2).
Author:
Fupeng Zhang, Youjun Lu, Qingjuan Yu
Comment:
29 pages, 17 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06296
Title:
 TARGET: toward a solution for the readout electronics of the Cherenkov  Telescope Array

Abstract:
TARGET is an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) designed to read
out signals recorded by the photosensors in cameras of very-high-energy
gamma-ray telescopes exploiting the imaging of Cherenkov radiation from
atmospheric showers. TARGET capabilities include sampling at a high rate
(typically 1 GSample/s), digitization, and triggering on the sum of four
adjacent pixels. The small size, large number of channels read out per ASIC
(16), low cost per channel, and deep buffer for trigger latency (~16 $\mu$s at
1 GSample/s) make TARGET ideally suited for the readout in systems with a large
number of telescopes instrumented with compact photosensors like multi-anode or
silicon photomultipliers combined with dual-mirror optics. The possible
advantages of such systems are better sensitivity, a larger field of view, and
improved angular resolution. The two latest generations of TARGET ASICs, TARGET
5 and TARGET 7, are soon to be used for the first time in two prototypes of
small-sized and medium-sized dual-mirror telescopes proposed in the framework
of the Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) project. In this contribution we report
on the performance of the TARGET ASICs and discuss future developments.
Author:
L. Tibaldo, J. A. Vandenbroucke, A. M. Albert, S. Funk, T. Kawashima, M. Kraus, A. Okumura, L. Sapozhnikov, H. Tajima, G. S. Varner, T. Wu, A. Zink, CTA consortium
Comment:
8 pages, 3 figures. In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06298
Title:
 FS CMa type binaries

Abstract:
FS CMa type stars is a group of ~70 objects formerly known as unclassified
stars with the B[e] phenomenon. Their very strong emission-line spectra in
combination with a nearly main-sequence luminosity suggest the binary nature
for them. They possess strong IR excesses due to radiation of circumstellar
dust that implies a compact distribution probably in a circumbinary disk. Our
long-term spectroscopic monitoring revealed neutral metal lines, which always
include that of Li I 6708 \AA, in the spectra of some FS CMa objects indicating
the presence of a cool star. We present a summary of our results with a first
overview of FS CMa type binaries and review possible implications for the
nature and evolutionary status of the entire group.
Author:
Anatoly Miroshnichenko, Sergey Zharikov
Comment:
4 pages, 1 figure, to appear in EAS Publication Series, in proceedings of the "Physics Of Evolved Star 2015" conference

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06306
Title:
 On the Soft Limit of the Large Scale Structure Power Spectrum: UV  Dependence

Abstract:
We derive a non-perturbative equation for the large scale structure power
spectrum of long-wavelength modes. Thereby, we use an operator product
expansion together with relations between the three-point function and power
spectrum in the soft limit. The resulting equation encodes the coupling to
ultraviolet (UV) modes in two time-dependent coefficients, which may be
obtained from response functions to (anisotropic) parameters, such as spatial
curvature, in a modified cosmology. We argue that both depend weakly on
fluctuations deep in the UV. As a byproduct, this implies that the renormalized
leading order coefficient(s) in the effective field theory (EFT) of large scale
structures receive most of their contribution from modes close to the
non-linear scale. Consequently, the UV dependence found in explicit
computations within standard perturbation theory stems mostly from
counter-term(s). We confront a simplified version of our non-perturbative
equation against existent numerical simulations, and find good agreement within
the expected uncertainties. Our approach can in principle be used to precisely
infer the relevance of the leading order EFT coefficient(s) using small volume
simulations in an `anisotropic separate universe' framework. Our results
suggest that the importance of these coefficient(s) is a $\sim 10 \%$ effect,
and plausibly smaller.
Author:
Mathias Garny, Thomas Konstandin, Rafael A. Porto, Laura Sagunski
Comment:
25+5 pages, 10 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06311
Title:
 VERITAS Observations of The Galactic Center Ridge

Abstract:
The Galactic Center Ridge has been observed extensively in the past by both
GeV and TeV instruments revealing a wealth of structure, including both a
diffuse component, the point sources G0.9+0.1 (a composite supernova remnant)
and SgrA* (believed to be associated with the super massive black hole located
at the center of our galaxy). Previous observations (> 300 GeV) with the
H.E.S.S. array have also detected an extended TeV component along the Galactic
plane due to either diffuse emission or a host of unresolved point sources.
Here we report on the VERITAS observations of the Galactic Center Ridge from
2010-2014 in the energy range above 2 TeV. From these observations we 1.)
Provide improved measurements of the differential energy spectra for SgrA* in
the multi-TeV regime, 2.) Provide a detection in the >2 TeV band of the
composite SNR G0.9+0.1 and an improvement of its multi-TeV energy spectrum. 3.)
Report on the detection of an extended component of emission along the Galactic
plane by VERITAS. 4.) Report on the detection of VER J1746-289, a localized
enhancement of TeV emission along the Galactic plane.
Author:
Andrew W. Smith, VERITAS Collaboration
Comment:
To appear in the proceedings of The 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC 2015), The Hague, Netherlands; 8 pages, 5 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06323
Title:
 Optical discovery and multiwavelength investigation of supernova remnant  MCSNR J0512-6707 in the Large Magellanic Cloud

Abstract:
We present optical, radio and X-ray data that confirm a new supernova remnant
(SNR) in the Large Magellanic Cloud (LMC) discovered using our deep H-alpha
imagery. Optically, the new SNR has a somewhat filamentary morphology and a
diameter of 56 x 64 arcsec (13.5 x 15.5 pc at the 49.9 kpc distance of the
LMC). Spectroscopic follow-up of multiple regions show high [SII]/H-alpha
emission-line ratios ranging from 0.66+/-0.02 to 0.93+/-0.01, all of which are
typical of an SNR. We found radio counterparts for this object using our new
Australia Telescope Compact Array (ATCA) 6cm pointed observations as well as a
number of available radio surveys at 8 640 MHz, 4 850 MHz, 1 377 MHz and 843
MHz. With these combined data we provide a spectral index (alpha) = -0.5
between 843 and 8640 MHz. Both spectral line analysis and the magnetic field
strength, ranging from 124 - 184 mG, suggest a dynamical age between 2,200 and
4,700 yrs. The SNR has a previously catalogued X-ray counterpart listed as HP
483 in the ROSAT Position Sensitive Proportional Counter (PSPC) catalogue.
Author:
Warren A. Reid, Milorad Stupar, Luke M. Bozzetto, Quentin A. Parker, Miroslav D. Filipovic
Comment:
10 pages, 11 figures. Accepted MNRAS

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06331
Title:
 Precise Distances for Main-Belt Asteroids in Only Two Nights

Abstract:
We present a method for calculating precise distances to asteroids using only
two nights of data from a single location --- far too little for an orbit ---
by exploiting the angular reflex motion of the asteroids due to Earth's axial
rotation. We refer to this as the rotational reflex velocity method. While the
concept is simple and well-known, it has not been previously exploited for
surveys of main-belt asteroids. We offer a mathematical development, estimates
of the errors of the approximation, and a demonstration using a sample of 197
asteroids observed for two nights with a small, 0.9-meter telescope. This
demonstration used digital tracking to enhance detection sensitivity for faint
asteroids, but our distance determination works with any detection method.
Forty-eight asteroids in our sample had known orbits prior to our observations,
and for these we demonstrate a mean fractional error of only 1.6% between the
distances we calculate and those given in ephemerides from the Minor Planet
Center. In contrast to our two-night results, distance determination by fitting
approximate orbits requires observations spanning 7--10 nights. Once an
asteroid's distance is known, its absolute magnitude and size (given a
statistically-estimated albedo) may immediately be calculated. Our method will
therefore greatly enhance the efficiency with which 4-meter and larger
telescopes can probe the size distribution of small (e.g. 100 meter) main belt
asteroids. This distribution remains poorly known, yet encodes information
about the collisional evolution of the asteroid belt --- and hence the history
of the Solar System.
Author:
Aren N. Heinze, Stanimir Metchev
Comment:
24 pages, 5 figures, accepted by the Astronomical Journal

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06332
Title:
 Radio Emission and Orbital Motion from the Close-Encounter Star-Brown  Dwarf Binary WISE J072003.20-084651.2

Abstract:
We report the detection of radio emission and orbital motion from the nearby
star-brown dwarf binary WISE J072003.20-084651.2AB. Radio observations across
the 4.5-6.5 GHz band with the Very Large Array identify at the position of the
system quiescent emission with a flux density of 15$\pm$3 $\mu$Jy, and a
highly-polarized radio source that underwent a 2-3 min burst with peak flux
density 300$\pm$90 $\mu$Jy. The latter emission is likely a low-level magnetic
flare similar to optical flares previously observed for this source. No
outbursts were detected in separate narrow-band H$\alpha$ monitoring
observations. We report new high-resolution imaging and spectroscopic
observations that confirm the presence of a co-moving T5.5 secondary and
provide the first indications of three-dimensional orbital motion. We used
these data to revise our estimates for the orbital period (4.1$^{+2.7}_{-1.3}$
yr) and tightly constrain the orbital inclination to be nearly edge-on
(93.6\deg$^{+1.6\deg}_{-1.4\deg}$), although robust measures of the component
and system masses will require further monitoring. The inferred orbital motion
does not change the high likelihood that this radio-emitting very low-mass
binary made a close pass to the Sun in the past 100 kyr.
Author:
Adam J. Burgasser, Carl Melis, Jacob Todd, Christopher R. Gelino, Gregg Hallinan, Daniella Bardalez Gagliuffi
Comment:
12 pages, 22 figures, accepted for publication to AJ

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06334
Title:
 VERITAS Discovery of Very High-Energy Gamma-Ray Emission from RGB  J2243+203

Abstract:
RGB J2243+203 is a blazar at an estimated redshift of greater than 0.39 that
has been classified both as an intermediate-frequency-peaked BL Lac object and
as a high-frequency-peaked BL Lac object. This source has been detected by
VERITAS at a statistical significance of 5.6 $\sigma$ in $\sim$4 hours between
21 Dec 2014 UTC (57012 MJD) and 24 Dec 2014 UTC (57015 MJD). An integral flux
of $2.03 \pm 0.54 \times 10^{-11} \textrm{cm}^{-2}\textrm{s}^{-1}$ has been
observed above 160 GeV. The gamma-ray spectrum can be described as a simple
power-law spectrum with spectral index of $-4.64 \pm 0.56$. VERITAS
measurements are complemented by quasi-simultaneous Fermi-LAT and Swift-XRT
observations, in the energy ranges of 1-100 GeV and 2-10 keV, respectively.
During the three day time period of VERITAS observations, an increased flux
level at 1-100 GeV energies was detected compared to the flux from the first
four years of Fermi-LAT observations. The Swift-XRT observations were taken 2.8
days after this period, and the integral X-ray flux in the energy range 0.3-10
keV is not significantly higher than a baseline flux from archival data.
Author:
A. U. Abeysekara
Comment:
7 pages, 2 figures, The 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference, 30 July- 6 August, 2015 The Hague, The Netherlands

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06342
Title:
 Phases of New Physics in the CMB

Abstract:
Fluctuations in the cosmic neutrino background are known to produce a phase
shift in the acoustic peaks of the cosmic microwave background. It is through
the sensitivity to this effect that the recent CMB data has provided a robust
detection of free-streaming neutrinos. In this paper, we revisit the phase
shift of the CMB anisotropy spectrum as a probe of new physics. The phase shift
is particularly interesting because its physical origin is strongly constrained
by the analytic properties of the Green's function of the gravitational
potential. For adiabatic fluctuations, a phase shift requires modes that
propagate faster than the speed of fluctuations in the photon-baryon plasma.
This possibility is realized by free-streaming relativistic particles, such as
neutrinos or other forms of dark radiation. Alternatively, a phase shift can
arise from isocurvature fluctuations. We present simple models to illustrate
each of these effects. We then provide observational constraints from the
Planck temperature and polarization data on additional forms of radiation. We
also forecast the capabilities of future CMB Stage IV experiments. Whenever
possible, we give analytic interpretations of our results.
Author:
Daniel Baumann, Daniel Green, Joel Meyers, Benjamin Wallisch
Comment:
39 pages, 10 figures, 5 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06391
Title:
 LAMOST observations in the Kepler field. Database of low-resolution  spectra

Abstract:
The nearly continuous light curves with micromagnitude precision provided by
the space mission Kepler are revolutionising our view of pulsating stars. They
have revealed a vast sea of low-amplitude pulsation modes that were
undetectable from Earth. The long time base of Kepler light curves allows an
accurate determination of frequencies and amplitudes of pulsation modes needed
for in-depth asteroseismic modeling. However, for an asteroseismic study to be
successful, the first estimates of stellar parameters need to be known and they
can not be derived from the Kepler photometry itself. The Kepler Input Catalog
(KIC) provides values for the effective temperature, the surface gravity and
the metallicity, but not always with a sufficient accuracy. Moreover,
information on the chemical composition and rotation rate is lacking. We are
collecting low-resolution spectra for objects in the Kepler field of view with
the Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopic Telescope (LAMOST, Xinglong
observatory, China). All of the requested fields have now been observed at
least once. In this paper we describe those observations and provide a database
of use to the whole astronomical community.
Author:
P. De Cat, J.N. Fu, A.B. Ren, X.H. Yang, J.R. Shi, A.L. Luo, M. Yang, J.L. Wang, H.T. Zhang, H.M. Shi, W. Zhang, Subo Dong, G. Catanzaro, C.J. Corbally, A. Frasca, R.O. Gray, J. Molenda-Zakowicz, K. Uytterhoeven, M. Briquet, H. Bruntt, S. Frandsen, L. Kiss, D.W. Kurtz, M. Marconi, E. Niemczura, R.H. Oestensen, V. Ripepi, B. Smalley, J. Southworth, R. Szabo, J.H. Telting, C. Karoff, V. Silva Aguirre, Y. Wu, Y.H. Hou, G. Jin, X.L. Zhou
Comment:
Accepted for publication in ApJS (19 pages, 9 figures, 6 tables). Peter.DeCat@oma.be

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06397
Title:
 Camera calibration strategy of the SST-1M prototype of the Cherenokov  Telescope Array

Abstract:
The SST-1M telescope is one of the prototypes under construction proposed to
be part of the future Cherenkov Telescope Array. It uses a standard
Davis-Cotton design for the optics and telescope structure, with a dish
diameter of 4 meters and a large field-of-view of 9 degrees.The innovative camera design is composed of a photo-detection plane with 1296
pixels including entrance window, light concentrators, Silicon Photomultipliers
(SiPMs), and pre-amplifier stages together with a fully digital readout and
trigger electronics, DigiCam.In this contribution we give a general description of the analysis chain
designed for the SST-1M prototype. In particular we focus on the calibration
strategy used to convert the SiPM signals registered by DigiCam to the
quantities needed for Cherenkov image analysis. The calibration is based on an
online feedback system to stabilize the gain of the SiPMs, as well as dedicated
events (dark count, pedestal, and light flasher events) to be taken during the
normal operation of the prototype.
Author:
E. Prandini, M. Heller, E. Lyard, E. jr. Schioppa, A. Neronov, W. Bilnik, J. Błocki, L. Bogacz, T. Bulik, F. Cadoux, A. Christov, M. Curyło, D. della Volpe, M. Dyrda, Y. Favre, A. Frankowski, Ł. Grudnik, M. Grudzińska, B. Idźkowski, M. Jamrozy, M. Janiak, J. Kasperek, K. Lalik, E. Mach, D. Mandat, A. Marszałek, J. Michałowski, R. Moderski, T. Montaruli, J. Niemiec, M. Ostrowski, P. Paśko, M. Pech, A. Porcelli, M. Rameez, P. Rajda, P. Schovanek, K. Seweryn, K. Skowron, V. Sliusar, M. Sowiński, Ł. Stawarz, M. Stodulska, M. Stodulski, S. Toscano, I. Troyano Pujadas, R. Walter, M. Więcek, A. Zagdański, K. Ziętara, P. Żychowski, CTA Consortium
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06399
Title:
 Violent Hard X-ray Variability of Mrk 421 Observed by NuSTAR in 2013  April

Abstract:
The well studied blazar Markarian 421 (Mrk 421, $z$=0.031) was the subject of
an intensive multi-wavelength campaign when it flared in 2013 April. The
recorded X-ray and very high energy (VHE, E$>$100 GeV) $\gamma$-ray fluxes are
the highest ever measured from this object. At the peak of the activity, it was
monitored by the hard X-ray focusing telescope {\it Nuclear Spectroscopic
Telescope Array} ({\it NuSTAR}) and {\it Swift} X-Ray Telescope (XRT). In this
work, we present a detailed variability analysis of {\it NuSTAR} and {\it
Swift}-XRT observations of Mrk 421 during this flaring episode. We obtained the
shortest flux doubling time of 14.01$\pm$5.03 minutes, which is the shortest
hard X-ray (3$-$79 keV) variability ever recorded from Mrk 421 and is on the
order of the light crossing time of the black hole's event horizon. A pattern
of extremely fast variability events superposed on slowly varying flares is
found in most of the {\it NuSTAR} observations. We suggest that these peculiar
variability patterns may be explained by magnetic energy dissipation and
reconnection in a fast moving compact emission region within the jet. Based on
the fast variability, we derive a lower limit on the magnetic field strength of
$B \ge 0.73 \delta_1^{-2/3} \, \nu_{19}^{1/3}$~G, where $\delta_1$ is the
Doppler factor in units of 10, and $\nu_{19}$ is the characteristic X-ray
synchrotron frequency in units of $10^{19}$~Hz.
Author:
Vaidehi S. Paliya, Markus Bottcher, Chris Diltz, C. S. Stalin, S. Sahayanathan, C. D. Ravikumar
Comment:
23 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables, to appear in the Astrophysical Journal

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06406
Title:
 Direct exoplanet detection and characterization using the ANDROMEDA  method: Performance on VLT/NaCo data

Abstract:
Context. The direct detection of exoplanets with high-contrast imaging
requires advanced data processing methods to disentangle potential planetary
signals from bright quasi-static speckles. Among them, angular differential
imaging (ADI) permits potential planetary signals with a known rotation rate to
be separated from instrumental speckles that are either statics or slowly
variable. The method presented in this paper, called ANDROMEDA for ANgular
Differential OptiMal Exoplanet Detection Algorithm is based on a maximum
likelihood approach to ADI and is used to estimate the position and the flux of
any point source present in the field of view. Aims. In order to optimize and
experimentally validate this previously proposed method, we applied ANDROMEDA
to real VLT/NaCo data. In addition to its pure detection capability, we
investigated the possibility of defining simple and efficient criteria for
automatic point source extraction able to support the processing of large
surveys. Methods. To assess the performance of the method, we applied ANDROMEDA
on VLT/NaCo data of TYC-8979-1683-1 which is surrounded by numerous bright
stars and on which we added synthetic planets of known position and flux in the
field. In order to accommodate the real data properties, it was necessary to
develop additional pre-processing and post-processing steps to the initially
proposed algorithm. We then investigated its skill in the challenging case of a
well-known target, $\beta$ Pictoris, whose companion is close to the detection
limit and we compared our results to those obtained by another method based on
principal component analysis (PCA). Results. Application on VLT/NaCo data
demonstrates the ability of ANDROMEDA to automatically detect and characterize
point sources present in the image field. We end up with a robust method
bringing consistent results with a sensitivity similar to the recently
published algorithms, with only two parameters to be fine tuned. Moreover, the
companion flux estimates are not biased by the algorithm parameters and do not
require a posteriori corrections. Conclusions. ANDROMEDA is an attractive
alternative to current standard image processing methods that can be readily
applied to on-sky data.
Author:
F. Cantalloube, D. Mouillet, L. M. Mugnier, J. Milli, O. Absil, C. A. Gomez Gonzalez, G. Chauvin, J.-L Beuzit, A. Cornia
Comment:
NONE

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06409
Title:
 Adiabatic black hole growth in Sérsic models of elliptical galaxies

Abstract:
We have examined the effect of slow growth of a central black hole on
spherical galaxies that obey S\'ersic or $R^{1/m}$ surface-brightness profiles.
During such growth the actions of each stellar orbit are conserved, which
allows us to compute the final distribution function if we assume that the
initial distribution function is isotropic. We find that black-hole growth
leads to a central cusp or ``excess light', in which the surface brightness
varies with radius as $R^{-1.3}$ (with a weak dependence on S\'ersic index
$m$), the line-of-sight velocity dispersion varies as $R^{-1/2}$, and the
velocity anisotropy is $\beta\simeq -0.24$ to $-0.28$ depending on $m$. The
excess stellar mass in the cusp scales approximately linearly with the
black-hole mass, and is typically 0.5--0.85 times the black-hole mass. This
process may strongly influence the structure of nuclear star clusters if they
contain black holes.
Author:
Naveen Jingade, Tarun Deep Saini, Scott Tremaine
Comment:
Submitted, 10 pages,13 figures in ApJ (2015)

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06412
Title:
 Plasma motions and non-thermal line broadening in flaring twisted  coronal loops

Abstract:
Observation of coronal EUV spectral lines offers an opportunity to evaluate
the thermal structure and flows in flaring atmospheres. This, in turn, can be
used to estimate the partitioning between the thermal and kinetic energies
released in flares. Our aim is to forward-model large-scale (50-10000 km)
velocity distributions in order to interpret non-thermal broadening of
different spectral EUV lines observed in flares. The developed models allow us
to understand the origin of the observed spectral line shifts and broadening,
and link these features to particular physical phenomena in flaring
atmospheres. We use ideal MHD to derive unstable twisted magnetic fluxtube
configurations in a gravitationally-stratified atmosphere. The evolution of
these twisted fluxtubes is followed using resistive MHD, with anomalous
resistivity depending on the local density and temperature. The model also
takes into account the thermal conduction and radiative losses. The model
allows us to evaluate average velocities and velocity dispersions, which would
be detected as 'non-thermal' velocities in observations, at different
temperatures. Our models show qualitative and quantitative agreement with
observations. Thus, the line-of-sight (LOS) velocity dispersions demonstrate
substantial correlation with the temperature, increasing from about 20-30 km/s
around 1 MK to about 200-400 km/s near 10-20 MK. The average velocities also
correlate with velocity dispersions, although they demonstrate a very strong
scattering, compared to observations. We also note that near foot-points the
velocity dispersions across the magnetic field are systematically lower than
that along the field. We conclude, that the correlation between the flow
velocities, velocity dispersions and temperatures are likely to indicate that
the same heating mechanism is responsible for heating the plasma, its
turbulisation and expansion/evaporation.
Author:
Mykola Gordovskyy, Eduard Kontar, Philippa Browning
Comment:
Submitted to Astronomy & Astrophysics

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06415
Title:
 Performance of the Mechanical Structure of the SST-2M GCT Proposed for  the Cherenkov Telescope Array

Abstract:
The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) consortium aims to create the next
generation Very High Energy gamma-ray observatory. It will be devoted to the
observation of gamma rays over a wide band of energy, from 20 GeV to 300 TeV.
Three different classes, Large, Medium and Small Size Telescopes, are foreseen
to cover the low, intermediate and high energy regions, respectively. The
energy range of the Small Size Telescopes (SSTs) extends from 1 TeV to 300 TeV.
Among them, the Gamma-ray Cherenkov Telescope (GCT), a telescope based on a
Schwarzschild-Couder dual-mirror optical design, is one of the prototypes under
construction proposed for the SST sub-array of CTA. This contribution focuses
on the mechanical structure of GCT. It reports on last progress on the
mechanical design and discusses this in the context of CTA specifications.
Recent advances in the assembly and installation of the opto-mechanical
prototype of GCT on the French site of the Paris Observatory are also
described.
Author:
Jean-Laurent Dournaux, Jean-Michel Huet, Delphine Dumas, Jean-Philippe Amans, Gilles Fasola, Philippe Laporte, Jean-Jacques Bousquet, Hélène Sol
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06417
Title:
 Herschel-HIFI observations of H2O, NH3 and N2H+ toward high-mass  starless and proto-stellar clumps identified by the Hi-GAL survey

Abstract:
Our present understanding of high-mass star formation still remains very
schematic. In particular, it is not yet clear how much of the difference
between low-mass and high-mass star formation occurs during the earliest star
formation phases. The chemical characteristics of massive cold clumps, and the
comparison with those of their low-mass counterparts, could provide crucial
clues about the exact role that chemistry plays in differentiating the early
phases of low-mass and high-mass star formation. Water, in particular, is a
unique probe of physical and chemical conditions in star-forming regions. Using
the HIFI instrument of Herschel we have observed the ortho-NH3 (1_0-0_0)
(572GHz), ortho-H2O (1_10-1_01) (557GHz) and N2H+ (6-5) (559GHz) lines toward a
sample of high-mass starless and proto-stellar clumps selected from the
"Herschel} Infrared Galactic Plane Survey" (Hi-GAL). We compare our results to
previous studies of low-mass and high-mass proto-stellar objects. At least one
of the three molecular lines was detected in 4 (out of 35) and 7 (out of 17)
objects in the l=59deg and l=30deg galactic regions, respectively. All detected
sources are proto-stellar. The water spectra are complex and consist of several
kinematic components, identified through a Gaussian decomposition, and in a few
sources inverse and regular P-Cygni profiles have been detected. All water line
profiles of the l=59deg region are dominated by a broad Gaussian emission
feature, indicating that the bulk of the water emission arises in outflows. No
such broad emission is detected toward the l=30deg objects. The ammonia line in
some cases also shows line wings and an inverse P-Cygni profile, thus
confirming that NH3 rotational transitions can be used to probe the dynamics of
high-mass star forming regions. Both bolometric and water line luminosity
increase with the continuum temperature.
Author:
Luca Olmi, Carina M. Persson, Claudio Codella
Comment:
This paper includes 7 main figures and 6 tables, in addition to the figures with the spectra of the individual sources which are presented as on-line material. Accepted for publication on Astronomy and Astrophysics

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06438
Title:
 Status of the Cherenkov Telescope Array's Large Size Telescopes

Abstract:
The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) observatory, will be deployed over two
sites in the two hemispheres. Both sites will be equipped with four Large Size
Telescopes (LSTs), which are crucial to achieve the science goals of CTA in the
20-200 GeV energy range. Each LST is equipped with a primary tessellated mirror
dish of 23 m diameter, supported by a structure made mainly of carbon fibre
reinforced plastic tubes and aluminum joints. This solution guarantees light
weight (around 100 tons), essential for fast repositioning to any position in
the sky in <20 seconds. The camera is composed of 1855 PMTs and embeds the
control, readout and trigger electronics. The detailed design is now complete
and production of the first LST, which will serve as a prototype for the
remaining seven, is well underway. In 2016 the first LST will be installed at
the Roque de los Muchachos Observatory on the Canary island of La Palma
(Spain). In this talk we will outline the technical solutions adopted to
fulfill the design requirements, present results of element prototyping and
describe the installation and operation plans.
Author:
J. Cortina, M. Teshima, CTA Consortium
Comment:
8 pages, 2 figures, in Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06442
Title:
 Six years of VERITAS observations of the Crab Nebula

Abstract:
The Crab Nebula is the brightest source in the very-high-energy (VHE)
gamma-ray sky and one of the best studied non-thermal objects. The dominant VHE
emission mechanism is believed to be inverse Compton scattering of low energy
photons on relativistic electrons. While it is unclear how the electrons in the
nebula are accelerated to energies of $10^{16}$ eV, it is general consensus
that the ultimate source of energy is the Crab pulsar at the center of the
nebula. Studying VHE gamma-ray emission provides valuable insight into the
emission mechanisms and ultimately helps to understand the remaining mysteries
of the Crab, for example, how the Poynting dominated energy flow is converted
into a particle dominated flow of energy. We report on the results of six years
of Crab observations with VERITAS comprising 115 hours of data taken between
2007 and 2013. VERITAS is an array of four 12-meter imaging air Cherenkov
telescopes located in southern Arizona. We report on the energy spectrum, light
curve, and a study of the VHE extension of the Crab Nebula.
Author:
Kevin Meagher for the VERITAS Collaboration
Comment:
8 pages, 5 figures, To appear in Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06444
Title:
 HELP : The Herschel Extragalactic Legacy Project & The Coming of Age of  Multi-Wavelength Astrophysics

Abstract:
How did galaxies form and evolve? This is one of the most challenging
questions in astronomy today. Answering it requires a careful combination of
observational and theoretical work to reliably determine the observed
properties of cosmic bodies over large portions of the distant Universe on the
one hand, and accurately model the physical processes driving their evolution
on the other. Most importantly, it requires bringing together disparate
multi-wavelength and multi-resolution spectro-photometric datasets in an
homogeneous and well-characterized manner so that they are suitable for a
rigorous statistical analysis. The Herschel Extragalactic Legacy Project (HELP)
funded by the EC FP7 SPACE program aims to achieve this goal by combining the
expertise of optical, infrared and radio astronomers to provide a
multi-wavelength database for the distant Universe as an accessible value-added
resource for the astronomical community. It will do so by bringing together
multi-wavelength datasets covering the 1000 deg$^2$ mapped by Herschel
extragalactic surveys in an homogeneous and well-characterized manner, creating
a joint lasting legacy from several ambitious sky surveys.
Author:
Mattia Vaccari, HELP Consortium
Comment:
Refereed Proceeding of the "The Universe of Digital Sky Surveys" conference held at the INAF - Observatory of Capodimonte, Naples, on 25th-28th November 2014, to be published in Astrophysics and Space Science Proceedings, edited by Longo, Napolitano, Marconi, Paolillo, Iodice

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06453
Title:
 The SST-1M camera for the Cherenkov Telescope Array

Abstract:
The prototype camera of the single-mirror Small Size Telescopes (SST-1M)
proposed for the Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) project has been designed to
be very compact and to deliver high performance over thirty years of operation.
The camera is composed of an hexagonal photo-detection plane made of custom
designed large area hexagonal silicon photomultipliers and a high throughput,
highly configurable, fully digital readout and trigger system (DigiCam). The
camera will be installed on the telescope structure at the H.
Niewodnicza{\'n}ski institute of Nuclear Physics in Krakow in fall 2015. In
this contribution, we review the steps that led to the development of the
innovative photo-detection plane and readout electronics, and we describe the
test and calibration strategy adopted.
Author:
E.J.Schioppa, F.Cadoux, A.Christov, D.della Volpe, Y.Favre, M.Heller, T.Montaruli, A.Porcelli, M.Rameez, I.Troyano Pujadas, W.Bilnik, J. Blocki, L.Bogacz, T.Bulik, M.Curylo, M.Dyrda, A.Frankowski, L. Grudniki, M.Grudzinska, B.Idzkowski, M.Jamrozy, M.Janiak, J.Kasperek, K.Lalik, E.Lyard, E.Mach, D.Mandat, A.Marszalek, J.Michaowski, R.Moderski, A.Neronov, J.Niemiec, M.Ostrowski, P.Pasko, M.Pech, E.Prandini, P.Rajda, P.Schovanek, K.Seweryn, K.Skowron, V.Sliusar, M.Sowinski, L.Stawarz, M.Stodulska, M.Stodulski, S.Toscano, R.Walter, M.Wiecek, A.Zagdanski, K.Zietara, P.Zychowski
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06459
Title:
 Performance of the SST-1M telescope for the Cherenkov Telescope Array  observatory

Abstract:
The single mirror small-size telescope (SST-1M) is one of the telescope
projects being proposed for the Cherenkov Telescope Array observatory by a
sub-consortium of Polish and Swiss institutions. The SST-1M prototype structure
is currently being constructed at the Institute of Nuclear Physics in Cracow,
Poland, while the camera will be assembled at the University of Geneva,
Switzerland. This prototype enables measurements of parameters having a
decisive influence on the telescope performance. We present results of
numerical simulations of the SST-1M performance based on such measurements. The
telescope effective area, the expected trigger rates and the optical point
spread function are calculated.
Author:
R. Moderski, W. Bilnik, J. Błocki, L. Bogacz, T. Bulik, F. Cadoux, A. Christov, M. Chruślińska, M. Curyło, D. della Volpe, M. Dyrda, Y. Favre, A. Frankowski, Ł. Grudnik, M. Grudzińska, M. Heller, B. Idźkowski, M. Jamrozy, M. Janiak, J. Kasperek, K. Lalik, E. Lyard, E. Mach, D. Mandat, A. Marszałek, J. Michałowski, T. Montaruli, A. Neronov, J. Niemiec, M. Ostrowski, P. Paśko, M. Pech, A. Porcelli, E. Prandini, E. Pueschel, P. Rajda, M. Rameez, P. Rozwadowski, E. jr Schioppa, P. Schovanek, K. Seweryn, K. Skowron, V. Sliusar, M. Sowiński, Ł. Stawarz, M. Stodulska, M. Stodulski, S. Toscano, I. Troyano Pujadas, R. Walter, M. Wiȩcek, A. Zagdański, K. Ziȩtara, P. Żychowski, CTA Consortium
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06472
Title:
 The small size telescope projects for the Cherenkov Telescope Array

Abstract:
The small size telescopes (SSTs), spread over an area of several square km,
dominate the CTA sensitivity in the photon energy range from a few TeV to over
100 TeV, enabling for the detailed exploration of the very high energy
gamma-ray sky. The proposed telescopes are innovative designs providing a wide
field of view. Two of them, the ASTRI (Astrophysics con Specchi a Tecnologia
Replicante Italiana) and the GCT (Gamma-ray Cherenkov Telescope) telescopes,
are based on dual mirror Schwarzschild-Couder optics, with primary mirror
diameters of 4 m. The third, SST-1M, is a Davies-Cotton design with a 4 m
diameter mirror. Progress with the construction and testing of prototypes of
these telescopes is presented. The SST cameras use silicon photomultipliers,
with preamplifier and readout/trigger electronics designed to optimize the
performance of these sensors for (atmospheric) Cherenkov light. The status of
the camera developments is discussed. The SST sub-array will consist of about
70 telescopes at the CTA southern site. Current plans for the implementation of
the array are presented.
Author:
Teresa Montaruli, Giovanni Pareschi, Tim Greenshaw
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06473
Title:
 Modern middleware for the data acquisition of the Cherenkov Telescope  Array

Abstract:
The data acquisition system (DAQ) of the future Cherenkov Telescope Array
(CTA) must be ef- ficient, modular and robust to be able to cope with the very
large data rate of up to 550 Gbps coming from many telescopes with different
characteristics. The use of modern middleware, namely ZeroMQ and Protocol
Buffers, can help to achieve these goals while keeping the development effort
to a reasonable level. Protocol Buffers are used as an on-line data for- mat,
while ZeroMQ is employed to communicate between processes. The DAQ will be
controlled and monitored by the Alma Common Software (ACS). Protocol Buffers
from Google are a way to define high-level data structures through an in-
terface description language (IDL) and a meta-compiler. ZeroMQ is a middleware
that augments the capabilities of TCP/IP sockets. It does not implement very
high-level features like those found in CORBA for example, but makes use of
sockets easier, more robust and almost as effective as raw TCP. The use of
these two middlewares enabled us to rapidly develop a robust prototype of the
DAQ including data persistence to compressed FITS files.
Author:
Etienne Lyard, Roland Walter, Karl Kosack, Jean Jacquemier, Igor Oya, Peter Wegner, Matthias Fuessling, Xin Wu, CTA Consortium
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06482
Title:
 A unified numerical model of collisional depolarization and broadening  rates due to hydrogen atom collisions

Abstract:
Interpretation of solar polarization spectra accounting for partial or
complete frequency redistribution requires data on various collisional
processes. Data for depolarization and polarization transfer are needed but
often missing, while data for collisional broadening are usually more readily
available. Recent work by Sahal-Br\'echot and Bommier concluded that despite
underlying similarities in the physics of collisional broadening and
depolarization processes, relationships between them are not possible to derive
purely analytically.We aim to derive accurate numerical relationships between the collisional
broadening rates and the collisional depolarization and polarization transfer
rates due to hydrogen atom collisions. Such relationships would enable accurate
and efficient estimation of collisional data for solar applications.Using earlier results for broadening and depolarization processes based on
general (i.e. not specific to a given atom), semi-classical calculations
employing interaction potentials from perturbation theory, genetic programming
(GP) has been used to fit the available data and generate analytical functions
describing the relationships between them. The predicted relationships from the
GP-based model are compared with the original data to estimate the accuracy of
the method.
Author:
M. Derouich, A. Radi, P.S. Barklem
Comment:
10 pages, 7 figures, Accepted for publication in Astronomy & Astrophysics

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06485
Title:
 Timescale of asteroid resurfacing by regolith convection resulting from  the impact-induced global seismic shaking

Abstract:
A model for the asteroid resurfacing by regolith convection is built to
estimate its timescale. In the model, regolith convection is driven by the
impact-induced global seismic shaking. The model consists of three steps: (i)
intermittent impact of meteors, (ii) impact-induced global vibration (seismic
shaking), and (iii) vibration-induced regolith convection. In order to assess
the feasibility of the resurfacing process driven by the regolith convection,
we estimate the resurfacing timescale as a function of the size of a target
asteroid. According to the estimated result, the regolith-convection-based
resurfacing timescale is sufficiently shorter than the mean collisional
lifetime for the main belt asteroids. This means that the regolith convection
is a possible mechanism for the asteroid resurfacing process. However, the
timescale depends on various uncertain parameters such as seismic efficiency
and convective roll size. To clarify the parameter dependences, we develop an
approximated scaling form for the resurfacing timescale.
Author:
Tomoya M. Yamada, Kousuke Ando, Tomokatsu Morota, Hiroaki Katsuragi
Comment:
11pages, 7figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06489
Title:
 Large-scale anomalies in the Cosmic Microwave Background as signatures  of non-Gaussianity

Abstract:
We derive a general expression for the probability of observing deviations
from statistical isotropy in the cosmic microwave background (CMB) if the
primordial fluctuations are non-Gaussian and extend to superhorizon scales. The
primary motivation is to properly characterize the monopole and dipole
modulations of the primordial power spectrum that are generated by the coupling
between superhorizon and subhorizon perturbations. Unlike previous proposals
for generating the hemispherical power asymmetry, we do not assume that the
power asymmetry results from a single large superhorizon mode. Instead, we
extrapolate the observed power spectrum to superhorizon scales and compute the
power asymmetry that would result from a specific realization of non-Gaussian
perturbations on scales larger than the observable universe. Our study
encompasses many of the scenarios that have been put forward as possible
explanations for the CMB hemispherical power asymmetry. We confirm our analytic
predictions for the probability of a given power asymmetry by comparing them to
numerical realizations of CMB maps. We find that non-local models of
non-Gaussianity and scale-dependent local non-Gaussianity produce
scale-dependent modulations of the power spectrum, thereby potentially
producing both a monopolar and a dipolar power modulation on large scales. We
then provide simple examples of finding the posterior distributions for the
parameters of the bispectrum from the observed monopole and dipole modulations.
Author:
Saroj Adhikari, Sarah Shandera, Adrienne L. Erickcek
Comment:
21 pages, 11 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06500
Title:
 Application of the spine-layer jet radiation model to outbursts in the  broad-line radio galaxy 3C 120

Abstract:
We present a detailed Fermi/LAT data analysis for the broad-line radio galaxy
3C 120. This source has recently entered into a state of increased gamma-ray
activity which manifested itself in two major flares detected by Fermi/LAT in
September 2014 and April 2015 with no significant flux changes reported in
other wavelengths. We analyse available data focusing our attention on
aforementioned outbursts. We find very fast variability timescale during flares
(of the order of hours) together with a significant gamma-ray flux increase. We
show that the 6.8 years averaged gamma-ray emission of 3C 120 is likely a sum
of the external radiation Compton and the synchrotron self-Compton radiative
components. To address the problem of "orphan" gamma-ray flares and fast
variability we model the jet radiation dividing the jet structure into two
components: the wide and relatively slow outer layer and the fast, narrow
spine. We show that with the addition of the fast spine occasionally bent
towards the observer we are able to explain observed spectral energy
distribution of 3C 120 during flares with the Compton up-scattered broad-line
region and dusty torus photons as main gamma-rays emission mechanism.
Author:
Mateusz Janiak, Marek Sikora, Rafal Moderski
Comment:
12 pages, 8 figures, 2 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06502
Title:
 A Comparison of Spectroscopic versus Imaging Techniques for Detecting  Close Companions to Kepler Objects of Interest

Abstract:
(Abbreviated) Kepler planet candidates require both spectroscopic and imaging
follow-up observations to rule out false positives and detect blended stars.
[...] In this paper, we examine a sample of 11 Kepler host stars with
companions detected by two techniques -- near-infrared adaptive optics and/or
optical speckle interferometry imaging, and a new spectroscopic deblending
method. We compare the companion Teff and flux ratios (F_B/F_A, where A is the
primary and B is the companion) derived from each technique, and find no cases
where both companion parameters agree within 1sigma errors. In 3/11 cases the
companion Teff values agree within 1sigma errors, and in 2/11 cases the
companion F_B/F_A values agree within 1sigma errors. Examining each Kepler
system individually considering multiple avenues (isochrone mapping, contrast
curves, probability of being bound), we suggest two cases for which the
techniques most likely agree in their companion detections (detect the same
companion star). Overall, our results support the advantage the spectroscopic
deblending technique has for finding very close-in companions ($\theta
\lesssim$0.02-0.05") that are not easily detectable with imaging. However, we
also specifically show how high-contrast AO and speckle imaging observations
detect companions at larger separations ($\theta \geq$0.02-0.05") that are
missed by the spectroscopic technique, provide additional information for
characterizing the companion and its potential contamination (e.g., PA,
separation, $\Delta$m), and cover a wider range of primary star effective
temperatures. The investigation presented here illustrates the utility of
combining the two techniques to reveal higher-order multiples in known
planet-hosting systems.
Author:
Johanna K. Teske, Mark E. Everett, Lea Hirsch, Elise Furlan, Elliott P. Horch, Steve B. Howell, David R. Ciardi, Erica Gonzales, Justin R. Crepp
Comment:
Accepted to AJ. 40 pages, 12 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06503
Title:
 The foreground wedge and 21 cm BAO surveys

Abstract:
Redshifted H{\sc\,i} 21 cm emission from unresolved low-redshift large scale
structure is a promising window for ground-based Baryon Acoustic Oscillations
(BAO) observations. One of the major challenges for this method is separating
the cosmic signal that contains the BAO from the foregrounds of Galactic and
extra-Galactic origins that are stronger by many orders of magnitude than the
former. The smooth frequency spectrum expected for the foregrounds would
nominally contaminate only very small $k_\parallel$ modes; however the
chromatic response of the telescope antenna pattern at this wavelength to the
foreground introduces non-smooth structure, pervasively contaminating the
cosmic signal over the physical scales of our interest. Such contamination
defines a wedged volume in Fourier space around the transverse modes that is
inaccessible for the cosmic signal. In this paper, we test the effect of this
contaminated wedge on the future 21 cm BAO surveys using Fisher information
matrix calculation. We include the signal improvement due to the BAO
reconstruction technique that has been used for galaxy surveys and test the
effect of this wedge on the BAO reconstruction as a function of signal to
noises and incorporate the results in the Fisher matrix calculation. We find
that the wedge effect expected at $z=1-2$ is very detrimental to the angular
diameter distances: the errors on angular diameter distances increased by 3-4.4
times, while the errors on $H(z)$ increased by a factor of 1.5-1.6. Meanwhile
the BAO reconstruction is still valuable for constraining the Hubble parameter
even in the near absence of the transverse information and even in this low
signal to noise regime (i.e., $S/N < 1$) of the 21 cm surveys: for $H(z)$
precision, we observed 10--40 per cent improvement depending on redshift and
the noise level. (abridged).
Author:
Hee-Jong Seo, Christopher M. Hirata
Comment:
16 pages, 10 figures, 3 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06513
Title:
 A coronagraphic absorbing cloud reveals the narrow-line region and  extended Lyman-$α$ emission of QSO J0823+0529

Abstract:
We report long-slit spectroscopic observations of the quasar SDSS
J082303.22+052907.6 ($z_{\rm CIV}$$\sim$3.1875), whose Broad Line Region (BLR)
is partly eclipsed by a strong damped Lyman-$\alpha$ (DLA; log$N$(HI)=21.7)
cloud. This allows us to study the Narrow Line Region (NLR) of the quasar and
the Lyman-$\alpha$ emission from the host galaxy. Using CLOUDY models that
explain the presence of strong NV and PV absorption together with the detection
of SiII$^*$ and OI$^{**}$ absorption in the DLA, we show that the density and
the distance of the cloud to the quasar are in the ranges 180 $<$ $n_{\rm H}$
$<$ 710 cm$^{-3}$ and 580 $>$ $r_0$ $>$230 pc, respectively. Sizes of the
neutral($\sim$2-9pc) and highly ionized phases ($\sim$3-80pc) are consistent
with the partial coverage of the CIV broad line region by the CIV absorption
from the DLA (covering factor of $\sim$0.85). We show that the residuals are
consistent with emission from the NLR with CIV/Lyman-$\alpha$ ratios varying
from 0 to 0.29 through the profile. Remarkably, we detect extended
Lyman-$\alpha$ emission up to 25kpc to the North and West directions and 15kpc
to the South and East. We interpret the emission as the superposition of strong
emission in the plane of the galaxy up to 10kpc with emission in a wind of
projected velocity $\sim$500kms$^{-1}$ which is seen up to 25kpc. The low
metallicity of the DLA (0.27 solar) argues for at least part of this gas being
in-falling towards the AGN and possibly being located where accretion from cold
streams ends up.
Author:
Hassan Fathivavsari, Patrick Petitjean, Pasquier Noterdaeme, Isabelle Pâris, Hayley Finley, Sebastian López, Raghunathan Srianand, Paula Sánchez
Comment:
Accepted for publication in MNRAS, 14 pages, 13 figures, 4 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06520
Title:
 The GAPS Programme with HARPS-N@TNG X. The multi-planet system KELT-6:  detection of the planet KELT-6 c and measurement of the Rossiter-McLaughlin  effect for KELT-6 b

Abstract:
Aims. For more than 1.5 years we monitored spectroscopically the star KELT-6
(BD+312447), known to host the transiting hot Saturn KELT-6b, because a
previously observed long-term trend in radial velocity time series suggested
the existence of an outer companion. Methods. We collected a total of 93 new
spectra with the HARPS-N and TRES spectrographs. A spectroscopic transit of
KELT-6b was observed with HARPS-N, and simultaneous photometry was obtained
with the IAC-80 telescope. Results. We proved the existence of an outer planet
with a mininum mass M$_{\rm p}$sini=3.71$\pm$0.21 M$_{\rm Jup}$ and a
moderately eccentric orbit ($e=0.21_{-0.036}^{+0.039}$) of period P$\sim$3.5
years. We improved the orbital solution of KELT-6b and obtained the first
measurement of the Rossiter-McLaughlin effect, showing that the planet has a
likely circular, prograde, and slightly misaligned orbit, with a projected
spin-orbit angle $\lambda$=$-$36$\pm$11 degrees. We improved the KELT-6b
transit ephemeris from photometry, and we provided new measurements of the
stellar parameters. KELT-6 appears as an interesting case to study the
formation and evolution of multi-planet systems.
Author:
M. Damasso, M. Esposito, V. Nascimbeni, S. Desidera, A.S. Bonomo, A. Bieryla, L. Malavolta, K. Biazzo, A. Sozzetti, E. Covino, D. W. Latham, D. Gandolfi, M. Rainer, C. Petrovich, K. A. Collins, C. Boccato, R.U. Claudi, R. Cosentino, R. Gratton, A.F. Lanza, A. Maggio, G. Micela, E. Molinari, I. Pagano, G. Piotto, E. Poretti, R. Smareglia, L. Di Fabrizio, P. Giacobbe, M. Gomez-Jimenez, S. Murabito, M. Molinaro, L. Affer, M. Barbieri, L. R. Bedin, S. Benatti, F. Borsa, J. Maldonado, L. Mancini, G. Scandariato, J. Southworth, R. Zanmar Sanchez
Comment:
Letter, 4 figures, accepted for publication in A&A

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06527
Title:
 A Method for Establishing a Station-Keeping, Stratospheric Platform for  Astronomical Research

Abstract:
During certain times of the year at middle and low latitudes, winds in the
upper stratosphere move in nearly the opposite direction than the wind in the
lower stratosphere. Here we present a method for maintaining a high-altitude
balloon platform in near station-keeping mode that utilizes this stratospheric
wind shear. The proposed method places a balloon-borne science platform high in
the stratosphere connected by a lightweight, high-strength tether to a "tug"
vehicle located in the lower or middle stratosphere. Using aerodynamic control
surfaces, wind-induced aerodynamic forces on the tug can be manipulated to
counter the wind drag acting on the higher altitude science vehicle, thus
controlling the upper vehicle's geographic location. We describe the general
framework of this station-keeping method, some important properties required
for the upper stratospheric science payload and lower tug platforms, and
compare this station-keeping approach with the capabilities of a high altitude
airship and conventional tethered aerostat approaches. We conclude by
discussing the advantages of such a platform for a variety of missions with
emphasis on astrophysical research.
Author:
Robert Fesen, Yorke Brown
Comment:
18 pages, 4 figures. Published in Experimental Astronomy, May 2015

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06528
Title:
 Disc fragmentation rarely forms planetary-mass objects

Abstract:
It is now reasonably clear that disc fragmentation can only operate in the
outer parts of protostellar discs ($r > 50$ au). It is also expected that any
object that forms via disc fragmentation will have an initial mass greater than
that of Jupiter. However, whether or not such a process actually operates, or
can play a significant role in the formation of planetary-mass objects, is
still unclear. We do have a few examples of directly imaged objects that may
have formed in this way, but we have yet to constrain how often disc
fragmentation may actually form such objects. What we want to consider here is
whether or not we can constrain the likely population of planetary-mass objects
formed via disc fragmentation by considering how a population of objects at
large radii ($a > 50$) au - if they do exist - would evolve under perturbations
from more distant stellar companions. We find that there is a specific region
of parameter space to which such objects would be scattered and show that the
known exoplanets in that region have properties more consistent with that of
the bulk exoplanet population, than with having been formed via disc
fragmentation at large radii. Along with the scarcity of directly-imaged
objects at large radii, our results provide a similar, but independent,
constraint on the frequency of objects formed via disc fragmentation.
Author:
Ken Rice, Eric Lopez, Duncan Forgan, Beth Biller
Comment:
8 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06539
Title:
 In-flight calibration of STEREO-B/WAVES antenna system

Abstract:
The STEREO/WAVES (SWAVES) experiment on board the two STEREO spacecraft
(Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory) launched on 25 October 2006 is
dedicated to the measurement of the radio spectrum at frequencies between a few
kilohertz and 16 MHz. The SWAVES antenna system consists of 6 m long orthogonal
monopoles designed to measure the electric component of the radio waves. With
this configuration direction finding of radio sources and polarimetry (analysis
of the polarization state) of incident radio waves is possible. For the
evaluation of the SWAVES data the receiving properties of the antennas,
distorted by the radiation coupling with the spacecraft body and other onboard
devices, have to be known accurately. In the present context, these properties
are described by the antenna effective length vectors. We present the results
of an in-flight calibration of the SWAVES antennas using the observations of
the nonthermal terrestrial auroral kilometric radiation (AKR) during STEREO
roll maneuvers in an early stage of the mission. A least squares method
combined with a genetic algorithm was applied to find the effective length
vectors of the STEREO Behind (STEREO-B)/WAVES antennas in a quasi-static
frequency range ($L_{antenna} \ll \lambda_{wave}$) which fit best to the model
and observed AKR intensity profiles. The obtained results confirm the former
SWAVES antenna analysis by rheometry and numerical simulations. A final set of
antenna parameters is recommended as a basis for evaluations of the SWAVES
data.
Author:
M. Panchenko, W. Macher, H. O. Rucker, G. Fischer, T. H. Oswald, B. Cecconi, M. Maksimovic
Comment:
NONE

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06555
Title:
 NectarCAM : a camera for the medium size telescopes of the Cherenkov  Telescope Array

Abstract:
NectarCAM is a camera proposed for the medium-sized telescopes of the
Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) covering the central energy range of ~100 GeV
to ~30 TeV. It has a modular design and is based on the NECTAr chip, at the
heart of which is a GHz sampling Switched Capacitor Array and a 12-bit Analog
to Digital converter. The camera will be equipped with 265 7-photomultiplier
modules, covering a field of view of 8 degrees. Each module includes the
photomultiplier bases, high voltage supply, pre-amplifier, trigger, readout and
Ethernet transceiver. The recorded events last between a few nanoseconds and
tens of nanoseconds. The camera trigger will be flexible so as to minimize the
read-out dead-time of the NECTAr chips. NectarCAM is designed to sustain a data
rate of more than 4 kHz with less than 5\% dead time. The camera concept, the
design and tests of the various subcomponents and results of thermal and
electrical prototypes are presented. The design includes the mechanical
structure, cooling of the electronics, read-out, clock distribution, slow
control, data-acquisition, triggering, monitoring and services.
Author:
J-F. Glicenstein, O.Abril, J-A.Barrio, O.Blanch~Bigas, J.Bolmont, F.Bouyjou, P.Brun, E.Chabanne, C.Champion, S.Colonges, P.Corona, E.Delagnes, C.Delgado, C.Diaz Ginzov, D.Durand, J-P.Ernenwein, S.Fegan, O.Ferreira, M.Fesquet, A.Fiasson, G.Fontaine, N.Fouque, D.Gascon, B.Giebels, F.Henault, R.Hermel, D.Hoffmann, D.Horan, J.Houles, P.Jean, L.Jocou, S.Karkar, J.Knoedlseder, R.Kossakowski, G.Lamanna, T.LeFlour, J-P.Lenain, A.Leveque, F.Louis, G.Martinez, Y.Moudden, E.Moulin, P.Nayman, F.Nunio, J-F.Olive, J-L.Panazol, S.Pavy, P-O.Petrucci, E.Pierre, J.Prast, M.Punch, P.Ramon
Comment:
In Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06567
Title:
 Exploring the canonical behaviour of long gamma-ray bursts using an  intrinsic multi-wavelength afterglow correlation

Abstract:
In this paper we further investigate the relationship, reported by Oates et
al., 2012, between the optical/UV afterglow luminosity (measured at restframe
200s) and average afterglow decay rate (measured from restframe 200s onwards)
of long duration Gamma-ray Bursts (GRBs). We extend the analysis by examining
the X-ray light curves, finding a consistent correlation. We therefore explore
how the parameters of these correlations relate to the prompt emission phase
and, using a Monte Carlo simulation, explore whether these correlations are
consistent with predictions of the standard afterglow model. We find
significant correlations between: $\rm log\;L_{O,200\rm{s}}$ and $\rm
log\;L_{X,200\rm{s}}$; $\alpha_{O,>200\rm{s}}$ and $\alpha_{X,>200\rm{s}}$,
consistent with simulations. The model also predicts relationships between $\rm
log\;E_{iso}$ and $\rm log\;L_{200\rm{s}}$, however, while we find such
relationships in the observed sample, the slope of the linear regression is
shallower than that simulated and inconsistent at $\gtrsim 3\sigma$.
Simulations also do not agree with correlations observed between $\rm
log\;L_{200\rm{s}}$ and $\alpha_{>200\rm{s}}$, or $\rm log\;E_{iso}$ and
$\alpha_{>200\rm{s}}$. Overall, these observed correlations are consistent with
a common underlying physical mechanism producing GRBs and their afterglows
regardless of their detailed temporal behaviour. However, a basic afterglow
model has difficulty explaining all the observed correlations. This leads us to
briefly discuss alternative more complex models.
Author:
S. R. Oates, J. L. Racusin, M. De Pasquale, M. J. Page, A. J. Castro-Tirado, J. Gorosabel, P. J. Smith, A. A. Breeveld, N. P. M Kuin
Comment:
17 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in MNRAS

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06592
Title:
 Fermi Bubbles with HAWC

Abstract:
The Fermi Bubbles, which comprise two large and homogeneous regions of
spectrally hard gamma-ray emission extending up to $55^{o}$ above and below the
Galactic Center, were first noticed in GeV gamma-ray data from the Fermi
Telescope in 2010. The mechanism or mechanisms which produce the observed hard
spectrum are not understood. Although both hadronic and lep- tonic models can
describe the spectrum of the bubbles, the leptonic model can also explain
similar structures observed in microwave data from the WMAP and Planck
satellites. Recent publications show that the spectrum of the Fermi Bubbles is
well described by a power law with an exponential cutoff in the energy range of
100MeV to 500GeV. Observing the Fermi Bubbles at higher gamma-ray energies will
help constrain the origin of the bubbles. A steeper cutoff will favor a
leptonic model. The High Altitude Water Cherenkov (HAWC) Observatory, located
4100m above sea level in Mexico, is designed to measure high-energy gamma rays
between 100GeV to 100TeV. With a large field of view and good sensitivity to
spatially extended sources, HAWC is the best observatory suited to look for
extended regions like the Fermi Bubbles at TeV energies. We will present
results from a preliminary analysis of the Fermi Bubble visible to HAWC in the
Galactic Northern Hemisphere during the ICRC conference.
Author:
H. A. Ayala Solares, C. M. Hui, P. Hüntemeyer, HAWC Collaboration
Comment:
Presented at the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. See

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06596
Title:
 Absolute masses and radii determination in multiplanetary systems  without stellar models

Abstract:
The masses and radii of extrasolar planets are key observables for
understanding their interior, formation and evolution. While transit photometry
and Doppler spectroscopy are used to measure the radii and masses respectively
of planets relative to those of their host star, estimates for the true values
of these quantities rely on theoretical models of the host star which are known
to suffer from systematic differences with observations. When a system is
composed of more than two bodies, extra information is contained in the transit
photometry and radial velocity data. Velocity information (finite
speed-of-light, Doppler) is needed to break the Newtonian $MR^{-3}$ degeneracy.
We performed a photodynamical modelling of the two-planet transiting system
Kepler-117 using all photometric and spectroscopic data available. We
demonstrate how absolute masses and radii of single-star planetary systems can
be obtained without resorting to stellar models. Limited by the precision of
available radial velocities (38 $ms^{-1}$), we achieve accuracies of 20 per
cent in the radii and 70 per cent in the masses, while simulated 1 $ms^{-1}$
precision radial velocities lower these to 1 per cent for the radii and 2 per
cent for the masses. Since transiting multi-planet systems are common, this
technique can be used to measure precisely the mass and radius of a large
sample of stars and planets. We anticipate these measurements will become
common when the TESS and PLATO mission provide high-precision light curves of a
large sample of bright stars. These determinations will improve our knowledge
about stars and planets, and provide strong constraints on theoretical models.
Author:
J. M. Almenara, R. F. Díaz, R. Mardling, S. C. C. Barros, C. Damiani, G. Bruno, X. Bonfils, M. Deleuil
Comment:
17 pages, 15 figures, accepted MNRAS

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06597
Title:
 A Cosmic-ray Electron Spectrum with VERITAS

Abstract:
Cosmic-ray electrons and positrons (CREs) at GeV-TeV energies are a unique
probe of our local Galactic neighbourhood. CREs lose energy rapidly via inverse
Compton scattering and synchrotron processes while propagating in the Galaxy,
effectively placing a maximal propagation distance for TeV electrons of order
~1 kpc. Within this window, detected CREs can come from only a handful of
known, nearby astrophysical sources capable of exciting CREs to that energy or
from more exotic production mechanisms, like particle dark matter. HESS, and
later MAGIC, have shown that ground-based imaging atmospheric Cherenkov
telescopes have the capability to measure CREs into the TeV band. In this
proceedings we'll discuss the status of a VERITAS measurement of the electron
plus positron cosmic ray spectrum.
Author:
David Staszak, VERITAS Collaboration
Comment:
7 pages, 3 figures; To appear in the Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06598
Title:
 Stimulated Radiative Molecular Association in the Early Solar System.  II. Orbital Radii of the Planets and Other Satellites of the Sun

Abstract:
In a previous investigation, the orbital radii of regular satellites of
Uranus, Jupiter, Neptune, and Saturn are shown to be directly related to photon
energies in the spectra of atomic and molecular hydrogen. To explain these
observations a model was developed involving stimulated radiative molecular
association (SRMA) reactions among photons and atoms in the protosatellite
disks of the planets. In the present investigation, the previously developed
model is applied to the planets and important satellites of the Sun. A key
component of the model involves resonance associated with SRMA. Through this
resonance, thermal energy is extracted from the protosun's protoplanetary disk
at specific distances from the protosun wherever there is a match between the
local thermal energy of the disk and the energy of photons impinging on the
disk. Orbital radii of the planets and satellites are related to photon
energies ($E_P$ values) in the spectrum of atomic hydrogen. An expression
determined previously is used to relate $E_P$ values to temperatures in the
disk. Results indicate the surface temperature of the protosun at the time when
the evolution of the planets begins is higher than the surface temperature of a
typical T Tauri star. The present investigation offers an explanation for the
existence of the asteroid and classical Kuiper belts and predicts that a
primordial belt once existed in the vicinity of Neptune. It also indicates that
Uranus is formed from two protoplanets and is thus consistent with the theory
that the large tilt of Uranus's axis of rotation was created by the collision
of two bodies.
Author:
James C. Lombardi Sr
Comment:
16 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06601
Title:
 ExTrA: Exoplanets in Transit and their Atmospheres

Abstract:
The ExTrA facility, located at La Silla observatory, will consist of a
near-infrared multi-object spectrograph fed by three 60-cm telescopes. ExTrA
will add the spectroscopic resolution to the traditional differential
photometry method. This shall enable the fine correction of color-dependent
systematics that would otherwise hinder ground-based observations. With both
this novel method and an infrared-enabled efficiency, ExTrA aims to find
transiting telluric planets orbiting in the habitable zone of bright nearby M
dwarfs. It shall have the versatility to do so by running its own independent
survey and also by concurrently following-up on the space candidates unveiled
by K2 and TESS. The exoplanets detected by ExTrA will be amenable to
atmospheric characterisation with VLTs, JWST, and ELTs and could give our first
peek into an exo-life laboratory.
Author:
X. Bonfils, J.M. Almenara, L. Jocou, A. Wunsche, P. Kern, A. Delboulbé, X. Delfosse, P. Feautrier, T. Forveille, L. Gluck, S. Lafrasse, Y. Magnard, D. Maurel, T. Moulin, F. Murgas, P. Rabou, S. Rochat, A. Roux, E. Stadler
Comment:
15 pages, 11 figures, SPIE 2015

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06603
Title:
 A Black Hole Mass-Variability Time Scale Correlation at Submillimeter  Wavelengths

Abstract:
We analyze the light curves of 413 radio sources at submillimeter wavelengths
using data from the Submillimeter Array calibrator database. The database
includes more than 20,000 observations at 1.3 and 0.8 mm that span 13 years. We
model the light curves as a damped random walk and determine a characteristic
time scale $\tau$ at which the variability amplitude saturates. For the vast
majority of sources, primarily blazars and BL Lac objects, we find only lower
limits on $\tau$. For two nearby low luminosity active galactic nuclei, M81 and
M87, however, we measure $\tau=1.6^{+3.0}_{-0.9}$ days and
$\tau=45^{+61}_{-24}$ days, respectively ($2\sigma$ errors). Including the
previously measured $\tau=0.33\pm 0.16$ days for Sgr A*, we show an
approximately linear correlation between $\tau$ and black hole mass for these
nearby LLAGN. Other LLAGN with spectra that peak in the submm are expected to
follow this correlation. These characteristic time scales are comparable to the
minimum time scale for emission processes close to an event horizon, and
suggest that the underlying physics may be independent of black hole mass,
accretion rate, and jet luminosity.
Author:
Geoffrey C. Bower, Jason Dexter, Sera Markoff, Mark A. Gurwell, Ramprasad Rao, Ian McHardy
Comment:
Accepted for publication in ApJL

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06604
Title:
 Relaxing the limits on inflationary magnetogenesis

Abstract:
Inflation has long been thought as the best way of producing primordial
large-scale magnetic fields. To achieve fields strong enough to seed the
galactic dynamo, most of the mechanisms operate outside conventional
electromagnetic theory. The latter is typically restored after the end of the
de Sitter phase. Breaking away from standard electromagnetism can lead to
substantially stronger magnetic fields at the end of inflation, compensating
for the depletion caused by their subsequent adiabatic decay. We argue that the
drastic magnetic enhancements during the de Sitter era may not be necessary
because, contrary to the widespread perception, superhorizon-sized magnetic
fields decay at a slower pace after inflation. The principle behind this claim
is causality, which confines the post-inflationary electric currents inside the
horizon. Without the currents there can be no electric-field elimination and no
magnetic-flux freezing on super-Hubble lengths. There, the magnetic decay slows
down, making it easier to produce primordial fields of astrophysical interest.
In fact, non-conventional mechanisms of inflationary magnetogenesis that
produce fields stronger than $10^{17}$ G at the end of the de Sitter expansion,
could successfully seed the galactic dynamo today.
Author:
Christos G. Tsagas
Comment:
7 pages, no figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06622
Title:
 Prospects On Testing Lorentz Invariance Violation With The Cherenkov  Telescope Array

Abstract:
The assumption of Lorentz invariance is one of the founding principles of
modern physics and violation of that would have deep consequences to our
understanding of the universe. Potential signatures of such a violation could
range from energy dependent dispersion introduced into a light curve to a
change in the photon-photon pair production threshold that changes the expected
opacity of the universe. Astronomical sources of Very High Energy (VHE) photons
can be used as test beams to probe fundamental physics phenomena, however, such
effects would likely be small and need to be disentangled from intrinsic source
physics processes. The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) will be the next
generation ground based observatory of VHE photons. It will have improved flux
sensitivity, a lower energy threshold (tens of GeV), broader energy coverage
(nearly 5 decades) and improved energy resolution (better than 10\% over much
of the energy range) compared to current facilities in addition to excellent
time resolution for short timescale and rapidly varying phenomena. The expected
sensitivity of this facility leads to us to examine in this contribution the
kinds of limits to Lorentz Invariance Violation (LIV) that we could expect to
obtain on VHE observations of Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN), Gamma Ray Bursts
(GRBs) and pulsars with CTA. With a statistical sample and wide variety of
sources CTA has the potential to set model independent limits.
Author:
M. K. Daniel, D. Emmanoulopoulos, M. Fairbairn, N. Otte, CTA Consortium
Comment:
8 pages, in Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06625
Title:
 The Camera Calibration Strategy of the Cherenkov Telescope Array

Abstract:
The Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA) will be the next generation ground based
observatory in very high energy gamma ray astronomy. The facility will achieve
a wide energy coverage, starting from a threshold of a few tens of GeV up to
hundreds of TeV by utilising several classes of telescopes, each optimised for
different regions of the gamma-ray spectrum. The required energy resolution of
better than 10-15% over most of the energy range and a goal of 5% systematic
uncertainty on the measurement of the Cherenkov light intensity at the position
of each telescope means that a very precise evaluation of the entire system
will need to be made. The composite nature of the array means multiple camera
technologies will be employed so multiple calibration systems and procedures
will be necessary to meet the performance requirements. Additional constraints
will come from the need to minimise observing time losses and that the
observatory is foreseen to operate for tens of years, so both short and long
term systematic changes in performance will need to be investigated and
monitored. This contribution summarises the recommended camera calibration
strategy of CTA based on the experience with current IACTs.
Author:
M. K. Daniel, M. Gaug, P. Majumdar, CTA Consortium
Comment:
8 pages, in Proceedings of the 34th International Cosmic Ray Conference (ICRC2015), The Hague, The Netherlands. All CTA contributions at

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06273
Title:
 Testing long-distance modifications of gravity to 100 astronomical units

Abstract:
There are very few direct experimental tests of the inverse square law of
gravity at distances comparable to the scale of the Solar System and beyond.
Here we describe a possible space mission optimized to test the inverse square
law at a scale of up to 100 AU. For example, sensitivity to a Yukawa correction
with a strength of $10^{-7}$ times gravity and length scale of 100 AU is within
reach, improving the current state of the art by over two orders of magnitude.
This experiment would extend our understanding of gravity to the largest scale
that can be reached with a direct probe using known technology. This would
provide a powerful test of long-distance modifications of gravity including
many theories motivated by dark matter or dark energy.
Author:
Brandon Buscaino, Daniel DeBra, Peter W. Graham, Giorgio Gratta, Timothy D. Wiser
Comment:
13 pages, 7 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06364
Title:
 Existence and disappearance of conical singularities in GLPV theories

Abstract:
In a class of Gleyzes-Langlois-Piazza-Vernizzi (GLPV) theories, we derive
both vacuum and interior Schwarzschild solutions under the condition that the
derivatives of a scalar field $\phi$ with respect to the radius $r$ vanish. If
the parameter $\alpha_{\rm H}$ characterizing the deviation from Horndeski
theories approaches a non-zero constant at the center of a spherically
symmetric body, we find that the conical singularity arises at $r=0$ with the
Ricci scalar given by $R=-2\alpha_{\rm H}/r^2$. This originates from violation
of the geometrical structure of four-dimensional curvature quantities. The
conical singularity can disappear for the models in which the parameter
$\alpha_{\rm H}$ vanishes in the limit that $r \to 0$. We propose explicit
models without the conical singularity by properly designing the classical
Lagrangian in such a way that the main contribution to $\alpha_{\rm H}$ comes
from the field derivative $\phi'(r)$ around $r=0$. We show that the extension
of covariant Galileons with a diatonic coupling allows for the recovery of
general relativistic behavior inside a so-called Vainshtein radius. In this
case, both the propagation of a fifth force and the deviation from Horndeski
theories are suppressed outside a compact body in such a way that the model is
compatible with local gravity experiments inside the solar system.
Author:
Antonio De Felice, Ryotaro Kase, Shinji Tsujikawa
Comment:
9 pages

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06365
Title:
 The Grand Aurorae Borealis Seen in Colombia in 1859

Abstract:
On Thursday, September 1, 1859, the British astronomer Richard Carrington,
for the first time ever, observes a spectacular gleam of visible light on the
surface of the solar disk, the photosphere. The Carrington Event, as it is
nowadays known by scientists, occurred because of the high solar activity that
had visible consequences on Earth, in particular reports of outstanding aurorae
activity that amazed thousands of people in the western hemisphere during the
dawn of September 2. The geomagnetic storm, generated by the solar-terrestrial
event, had such a magnitude that the auroral oval expanded towards the equator,
allowing low latitudes, like Panama's 9$^\circ$ N, to catch a sight of the
aurorae. An expedition was carried out to review several historical reports and
books from the northern cities of Colombia, allowing the identification of a
narrative from Monter\'ia, Colombia (8$^\circ$ 45' N), that describes phenomena
resembling those of an aurorae borealis, such as fire-like lights, blazing and
dazzling glares, and the appearance of an immense S-like shape in the sky. The
very low latitude of the geomagnetic north pole in 1859, the lowest value in
over half a millennia, is proposed to have allowed the observations of auroral
events at locations closer to the equator, and supports the historical
description found in Colombia. The finding of such chronicle represents one of
the most complete descriptions of low-latitude sightings of aurorae caused by
the Carrington Event.
Author:
Freddy Moreno Cárdenas, Sergio Cristancho Sánchez, Santiago Vargas Domínguez
Comment:
26 pages, 10 figures. Accepted for publication in Advances in Space Research

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06413
Title:
 Nonminimal derivative coupling scalar-tensor theories: odd-parity  perturbations and black hole stability

Abstract:
We derive the odd parity perturbation equation in scalar-tensor theories with
a non minimal kinetic coupling sector of the general Horndeski theory, where
the kinetic term is coupled to the metric and the Einstein tensor. We derive
the potential of the perturbation, by identifying a master function and
switching to tortoise coordinates. We then prove the mode stability under
linear odd-parity perturbations of hairy black holes in this sector of
Horndeski theory. Finally, we comment on the existence of slowly rotating black
hole solutions in this setup and discuss their implications on the physics of
compact objects configurations, such as neutron stars.
Author:
Adolfo Cisterna, Miguel Cruz, Térence Delsate, Joel Saavedra
Comment:
NONE

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06457
Title:
 On geodesic deviation in Schwarzschild spacetime

Abstract:
For metrology, geodesy and gravimetry in space, satellite based instruments
and measurement techniques are used and the orbits of the satellites as well as
possible deviations between nearby ones are of central interest. The
measurement of this deviation itself gives insight into the underlying
structure of the spacetime geometry, which is curved and therefore described by
the theory of general relativity (GR). In the context of GR, the deviation of
nearby geodesics can be described by the Jacobi equation that is a result of
linearizing the geodesic equation around a known reference geodesic with
respect to the deviation vector and the relative velocity. We review the
derivation of this Jacobi equation and restrict ourselves to the simple case of
the spacetime outside a spherically symmetric mass distribution and circular
reference geodesics to find solutions by projecting the Jacobi equation on a
parallel propagated tetrad as done by Fuchs. Using his results, we construct
solutions of the Jacobi equation for different physical initial scenarios
inspired by satellite gravimetry missions and give a set of parameter together
with their precise impact on satellite orbit deviation. We further consider the
Newtonian analog and construct the full solution, that exhibits a similar
structure, within this theory.
Author:
Dennis Philipp, Volker Perlick, Claus Laemmerzahl, Kaustubh Deshpande
Comment:
6 pages, 3 figures, contribution to conference on Metrology for Aerospace 2015 - relativistic metrology session

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06543
Title:
 Scalar field cosmology modified by the Generalized Uncertainty Principle

Abstract:
We consider quintessence scalar field cosmology in which the Lagrangian of
the scalar field is modified by the Generalized Uncertainty Principle. We show
that the perturbation terms which arise from the deformed algebra are
equivalent with the existence of a second scalar field, where the two fields
interact in the kinetic part. Moreover, we consider a spatially flat
Friedmann-Lema\^{\i}tre-Robertson-Walker spacetime (FLRW), and we derive the
gravitational field equations. We show that the modified equation of state
parameter $w_{GUP}$ can cross the phantom divide line; that is $w_{GUP}<-1$.
Furthermore, we derive the field equations in the dimensionless parameters, the
dynamical system which arises is a singular perturbation system in which we
study the existence of the fixed points in the slow manifold. Finally, we
perform numerical simulations for some well known models and we show that for
these models with the specific initial conditions, the parameter $w_{GUP}$
crosses the phantom barrier.
Author:
Andronikos Paliathanasis, Supriya Pan, Souvik Pramanik
Comment:
10 pages, 3 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06547
Title:
 Curvature Perturbation and Domain Wall Formation with Pseudo Scaling  Scalar Dynamics

Abstract:
Cosmological dynamics of scalar field with a monomial potential $\phi^{n}$
with a general background equation of state is revisited. It is known that if
$n$ is smaller than a critical value, the scalar field exhibits a coherent
oscillation and if $n$ is larger it obeys a scaling solution without
oscillation. We study in detail the case where $n$ is equal to the critical
value, and find a peculiar scalar dynamics which is neither oscillating nor
scaling solution, and we call it a pseudo scaling solution. We also discuss
cosmological implications of a pseudo scaling scalar dynamics, such as the
curvature perturbation and the domain wall problem.
Author:
Yohei Ema, Kazunori Nakayama, Masahiro Takimoto
Comment:
22 pages, 2 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06577
Title:
 BMS invariance and the membrane paradigm

Abstract:
We reinterpret the BMS invariance of gravitational scattering using the
membrane paradigm. BMS symmetries imply an infinite number of conserved
quantities. Energy conservation at every angle is equivalent to the fluid
energy equation on the membrane (a conservation law at each point in the
fluid). Momentum conservation at every angle is equivalent to the
Damour-Navier-Stokes equation on the membrane. Soft gravitons are encoded in
the membrane's mass-energy density, $\Sigma(z,\bar{z})$. Fluid dynamics is
governed by infinite dimensional reparametrization invariance, which
corresponds to the group of volume preserving diffeomorphisms. This coincides
with the generalized BMS group, so there is a connection between the fluid and
gravity pictures at the level of symmetries. The existence of membrane fluid
conservation laws at event horizons implies BMS symmetries also act on event
horizons. This may be relevant for the information problem because it implies
infalling information can be stored in $\Sigma(z,\bar{z})$ at the horizon. The
teleological nature of the membrane at the horizon may be related to the black
hole final state proposal.
Author:
Robert F. Penna
Comment:
14 preprint pages, 1 figure

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06580
Title:
 Teleparallel quintessence with a non-minimal coupling to a boundary term

Abstract:
We propose a new model in the teleparallel framework where we consider a
scalar field non-minimally coupled to both the torsion $T$ and a boundary term
given by the divergence of the torsion vector $B=\frac{2}{e}\partial_\mu
(eT^\mu)$. This is inspired by the relation $R=-T+B$ between the Ricci scalar
of general relativity and the torsion of teleparallel gravity. This theory in
suitable limits incorporates both the non-minimal coupling of a scalar field to
torsion, and the non-minimal coupling of a scalar field to the Ricci scalar. We
analyse the cosmology of such models, and we perform a dynamical systems
analysis on the case when we have only a pure coupling to the boundary term. It
is found that the system generically evolves to a late time accelerating
attractor solution without requiring any fine tuning of the parameters. A
dynamical crossing of the phantom barrier is also shown to be possible.
Author:
Sebastian Bahamonde, Matthew Wright
Comment:
14 pages, 5 figures

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06584
Title:
 On Nonlocal Modified Gravity and Cosmology

Abstract:
Despite many nice properties and numerous achievements, general relativity is
not a complete theory. One of actual approaches towards more complete theory of
gravity is its nonlocal modification. We present here a brief review of
nonlocal gravity with its cosmological solutions. In particular, we pay special
attention to two nonlocal models and their nonsingular bounce solutions for the
cosmic scale factor.
Author:
Branko Dragovich
Comment:
11 pages, Published in Springer Proceedings in Mathematics & Statistics 111 (2014) 251-262

http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.06611
Title:
 Twist-averaged boundary conditions for nuclear pasta Hartree-Fock  calculations

Abstract:
Background: Nuclear pasta phases, present in the inner crust of neutron
stars, are associated with nucleonic matter at sub-saturation densities
arranged in regular shapes. Those complex phases, residing in a layer which is
approximately 100 m thick, impact many features of neutron stars. Theoretical
quantum-mechanical simulations of nuclear pasta are usually carried out in
finite 3D boxes assuming periodic boundary conditions (PBC). The resulting
solutions are affected by spurious finite-size effects.Purpose: In order to remove spurious finite-size effects, it is convenient to
employ twist-averaged boundary conditions (TABC) used in condensed matter,
nuclear matter, and lattice QCD applications. In this work, we study the
effectiveness of TABC in the context of pasta phases simulations within nuclear
density functional theory.Methods: We perform Skyrme-Hartree-Fock calculations in three dimensions by
implementing Bloch boundary conditions. The TABC averages are obtained by means
of Gauss-Legendre integration over twist angles.Results: We benchmark the TABC for a free nucleonic gas and apply it to
simple cases such as the rod and slab phases, as well as to more elaborate
P-surface and gyroidal phases.Conclusions: We demonstrate that by applying TABC reliable results can be
obtained from calculations performed in relatively small volumes. By studying
various contributions to the total energy, we gain insights into pasta phases
in mid-density range.
Author:
B. Schuetrumpf, W. Nazarewicz
Comment:
7 pages, 5 figures

